If you've been hoping to lie low while artificial intelligence eliminates millions of jobs and transforms the world's economy, then you need to pay very close attention to recent developments out of Lake Tahoe, California. Now, in case you're not familiar, Lake Tahoe is home to some of the richest people in the United States on both the California and Nevada sides. It's a premier tourist destination in our most populated state. Median property values are north of $700,000. Uh people living there as a general matter are financially secure and highly educated. Many of them work in tech. If you had to think of a a list of people whose lives would be upended by artificial intelligence, they would rank fairly low, you would think. And yet, because of AI, 50,000 people living on the California side of Lake Tahoe have no idea where their power supply will come from in a matter of months. Uh some are worried that the lights will go out indefinitely as if they'd been hit by a terrorist attack. But what's happened is that the utility realized that it's much more lucrative to power data centers, which are used to train artificial intelligence, and which consume near infinite amounts of electricity, uh than it is to power single-family homes. After all, by some estimates, depending on the size, a single data center can consume more more power than half a million homes. I'll say that again. A single data center consumes more power than half a million homes. Every utility is rapidly coming to the same conclusion because companies like Meta, Google, Microsoft, and Amazon, which collectively own 1/3 of all data center capacity, and which build overwhelming majority of large data centers, are willing and able to pay enormous premiums for the electricity that they're using. When they're able to price you out of the market, you're on your own. And when the choice is between a big tech uh trillion-dollar company or you and your single-family home, the big tech company is going to win out every single time. This reporting from Fortune quote, "Lake Tahoe doesn't know where its power will come from after next ski season, and it's a major problem for the 49,000 residents who call the region home." Uh Nevada Energy, the Nevada utility that has supplied the bulk of Lake Tahoe's electricity for decades, told Liberty Utilities, the small California company that services the region, that it will stop providing power after May 2027. The reason? NV uh needs the capacity for data centers. As in, the energy supplier for the Lake Tahoe region is telling the utility company that it has less than a year to find another power source. "It's like we don't exist." North Lake Tahoe resident Danielle Hughes told Fortune. Now, you might be thinking, well, uh okay. This is no big deal. The residents can simply find another utility to supply their power. The government can simply assign some utility to pick up the slack. I mean, surely we're not just going to leave these people without power. We're not going to do that. That can't happen. The power company can't just come to an entire community and say we're not going to give you power anymore. There must be some sort of system in place. Well, turns out that there is no system in place. Um and uh you know, finding replacement power is actually not so easy in this case because Liberty, the California utility uh utility, is completely dependent on the transmission lines from the Nevada utility, NV Energy. And California regulators have no power in Nevada. They can't order NV Energy to forego the profits from these big tech companies and serve these residents. So, the residents have two options. Option number one, they can wait several years for someone to spend hundreds of millions of dollars constructing a new transmission line for their benefit, and in the meantime, they have no power. Um they can use, you know, candlelight or something. Or option number two, they can buy power on the wholesale market, which means their electricity bill will increase dramatically. Some residents even at Lake Tahoe may not be able to afford the new bill. The electricity will still flow through NV Energy's transmission lines, but because it's coming from other suppliers in the west, suppliers who know these residents are desperate, it'll probably cost two, three times as much at a minimum. Could be much more than that. So, right now that's the plan. It's a disastrous situation. It's affecting people who never saw it coming. And really the ultimate message to these people is, well, you're screwed. You're on your own. Too bad. The data centers are more important. Now, at the same time, as insane as this story is, I I need to make it clear that the point of this monologue is not to indulge in any of the fear mongering about AI data data centers that's all over the internet. Um you know, I don't want to imply that residents of Lake Tahoe are going to resort to cannibalism or anything like that. Tourists who visit Lake Tahoe in all year and all likelihood will not encounter bombed-out ski lodges full of zombies. Um you know, there's enough hysteria already out there without me adding to it. I've seen people posting videos of lights in the sky claiming the data centers are permanently changing the clouds even though it's just normal lighting from an active construction project. I've also seen videos like this one from a council meeting in New Jersey. This is a woman who's opposed to data centers. Watch. >> Three counties Three counties in Indiana have put a moratorium on building data centers. Several in Georgia, Missouri, Illinois, Arizona, across the country, communities are protecting themselves from this poison. Are we going to allow it in Cumberland County? I want to ask the council, where will you go when the water stops flowing out OF YOUR FAUCETS? WHERE WILL YOU GO? Where will you go when the air smells like gas and makes you sick? Will you look around for a community whose leaders had the spine to say no TO THESE BILLIONAIRES? >> [cheering] [applause] >> OR OR WILL YOU STAY in Cumberland County and offer your children what is left of it to inherit? Thank you. >> Now, um even if you're opposed to AI data centers, if you agree with this woman on the issue, which I mostly do, um she's speaking in sort of apocalyptic terms about the whole county getting wiped out, air is poisonous, the water is depleted, and and on and on. Um you know, there's some class resentment going on. It's reminiscent of the women like Ben Affleck's daughter who would berate the city council over so-called long COVID. Uh we can't ignore the fact that whenever there's a contentious issue like this, people who are neurotic tend to panic. And they start making wild claims in a hysterical manner, and and therefore they are unpersuasive. That's the problem. It ends up being counterproductive. Now, it's counterproductive because fearmongering is the single fastest way to to discredit legitimate concerns, and there are many legitimate concerns with these data centers, as we will discuss in a moment, including, yes, concerns about the water supply. It's probably not going to be that you you build the data center and then nobody has water anymore, and the air is poisonous. It's not quite that, but there are legitimate concerns. Notice that in her entire diatribe, the woman actually doesn't talk about what these data centers are being used for. She doesn't mention mass surveillance or how these companies are programming robots to take human jobs. She also doesn't talk about how the land is being obtained. Instead, she's sort of yelling, and the people are applauding in the background. Now, if you remember from a few weeks ago, we talked about those high-level scientists who were strangely disappearing. And while some of those cases obviously merit more investigation, some of them clearly don't. And so, this is a kind of similar thing. When people pretend and in that case, people pretend otherwise when their only motivation is to string together some kind of elaborate conspiracy that doesn't withstand scrutiny and they throw all kinds of dubious claims into the mix, then they end up undermining all reasonable discussion about a particular topic. And in the case of data centers, that outcome works for the benefit of Big Tech. What Big Tech wants, if you're a skeptic of these data centers or concerned about them, they want you to to be as hysterical and hyperbolic as possible in your uh in your your protest of the data centers because then they can point to that and say, "Well, look, these people are totally unreasonable and they have no idea what's going on." You know, some have pointed out that you could go back and recall the the panic in the early 20th century over power lines. Um anytime somebody died as a result of a power line, it made national news for a while. Uh cartoons went out of their way to terrify people. Uh you're seeing one right there. There's a skull on the power line. Everyone's running for their life. Someone got tangled in the power line somehow. I'm not sure how that would happen. I mean, if you're walking on the sidewalk, there's no reason why you should end up tangled in the I don't know what you were doing to end up How did that What was that guy doing to end up in that position? Was he Was he like a parachuting, skydiving right into the Uh but, it you know, it looks like something out of a uh horror movie. And during the so-called War of the Currents between Thomas Edison on the one side and George Westinghouse and Nikola Tesla on the other, Edison's backers would publicly electrocute animals in order to demonstrate how dangerous alternating current supposedly was. Of course, today, alternating current powers pretty much every grid in in the world. Uh more recently, people who opposed fracking claimed that it would cause flaming tap water. Uh all this to say, you have to understand that some hysteria is going to result whenever there's new technology. The question you have to answer is whether there's an actual whether there's an actual problem underlying all of this and what to do about it. In the case of data centers and AI generally, there are certainly, without a doubt, actual problems underlying it. We want We want to get to those problems and discuss them in a in an an honest and objective way. Summer has a way of reminding you what actually matters. The family vacations, road trips, your kids are outside, your family's together, life feels full. These are the moments where you can start to think, "Am I actually protecting this or just enjoying it?" Because it's easy to assume everything will be fine. It's hard to take responsibility for what happens if it's not. The responsibility of protecting your loved ones and planning for the future is heavy. Trying to navigate life insurance on your own can be a mess. Our sponsor, Policygenius, makes that process dramatically easier by acting as an online insurance marketplace, not insurance company, so you can compare quotes from some of America's top insurers side-by-side for free and actually understand what you're buying in the process. Their licensed team works for you, not for the insurance carrier, so you can rest assured they'll answer your questions, handle all the paperwork, and advocate for you throughout the entire process. With Policygenius, you can find 20-year life insurance policies starting at just $276 a year for a million dollars in coverage. Head to policygenius.com/walsh to compare life insurance quotes from top companies and see how much you could save. That's policygenius.com/walsh. So, probably the single biggest red flag, even for people who believe AI is a net positive, has been the very abrupt 180 by people like Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates, who retains an ownership stake in the company. As you may remember, for many years Bill Gates was basically Greta Thunberg. And and now, seemingly out of nowhere, he's declaring that climate change actually isn't that big of a deal. Human welfare, he says, is more important. Here's a side-by-side that was uh put together by uh Maisie Moore. The first clip is Gates from 2019. And the second clip is from last year. It's only a 6-year difference. Watch. >> was the how great a problem bovine flatulence is. Nobody knows how to get rid of knows how to get cows to stop farting. >> Exactly. Or burping. >> Uh and so there is artificial meat, but that's at a very early stage. If it was a 50% reduction, then you could ignore, okay, leave the cows alone. Uh uh but because we're trying to avoid the temperature continuing to go up, you do need to go to zero. Not just everything should be uh solely for climate. Wasn't the goal here to improve human lives? Climate is super important, but uh ha- it has to be considered in terms of overall human welfare. Now, a few years ago, we were so desperate that we needed to find a way to stop the cows from farting. Uh no sacrifice is too small. And now, uh you know, climate change it's important, but uh it's not a big deal. Now, what makes this even weirder is that Gates is denying that he's changed his position, but he clearly has. That clip was not a one-off. In a speech at Harvard University 4 years ago, Gates said that climate change would make like life, quote, "essentially unlivable at the equator by the end of the century, leading to the instability of hundreds of millions of people trying to get out of those regions where a lot of the world's population is, and particularly the poorest in the world. Avoiding a climate disaster will be one of the greatest challenges humans have ever taken on." he said. Meanwhile, current Bill Gates talks like this, quote, There's a doomsday view of climate change that goes like this. In a few decades, cataclysmic climate change will decimate civilization. Fortunately for all of us, this view is wrong. Although climate change will have serious consequences, particularly for people in the poorest countries, it will not lead to humanity's demise. Our climate strategies need to prioritize human welfare. This may seem obvious. Who could be against improving people's lives? But sometimes human welfare takes a backseat to lowering emissions with bad consequences. We should measure success by our impact on human welfare more than our impact on the global temperature. Wow. It's like he's a completely different person. Think about how important the climate change agenda used to be. Like till like 10 seconds ago. It was the central plank of the WEF globalist utopia in which the peasants don't own any property and we have to rent everything from BlackRock. He told us again and again that our most important overriding objective as a species was to reduce carbon emissions. Now, one of the WEF's most prominent ambassadors has issued brand new marching orders. We're suddenly obligated to pursue human welfare and even things like reducing carbon emissions shouldn't happen if it if it's you know, has a negative impact on human welfare. I mean, this version of Bill Gates, if he was around in like 2012, he would have been he would have been stoned to death as a as a climate denier. And by the way, you'll often hear people say that if you criticize AI then data centers, then you're falling for a Chinese psyop. You know, the idea is that China wants the United States to sabotage its progress with artificial intelligence, so they're encouraging useful idiots to attack data centers. But if that were the case, it wouldn't explain why Bill Gates, who's been a useful idiot for China his entire life, is supporting an approach that will lead to more data centers in the United States. It seems more likely that Big Tech and China are both aligned on this point. They all want an AI-driven surveillance state in the United States. And coincidentally enough, they also want mass migration and more foreign workers to take American jobs, particularly the kinds of remote jobs that data centers will enable. So, indeed, a a shift towards human welfare instead of climate change, which is you take it on surface face value, taken surface level, that's the right answer. We should be focused on human welfare. We shouldn't be focused on climate change at all because it's made up. But, that's that's not what's actually motivating this sudden shift. Because actually this shift is good news for companies like Microsoft, which don't want environmentalists and climate change activists to stand in the way of their data centers. And ordinarily, I'd say it's good news for humanity as well. After all, anything that upsets climate change activists is by definition a good thing. You would think. These are insane people who stand in the way of human progress at every opportunity. But, in this case, it's unfortunately not that simple. It's worth paying close attention to the specific words that Bill Gates used. So, what's the significance of this pivot to human welfare? What could he possibly be trying to do? Well, as it turns out, human welfare or the public good is essentially standard for for eminent domain. Okay, that's the prog- that's the process that the government uses in order to seize private property, including lands and homes. If the government can demonstrate that your home stands in the way of the public good, then the government can seize your home by force, as long as they pay you a fair market value as defined by a government employee who's going to lowball you because you have no leverage in the situation at all cuz he's going to take your home anyway. Um one of the classic uses of eminent domain involves public infrastructure projects relating to utilities, specifically transmission lines. And this is an aspect of the data center story that most people are not talking about, but already people are losing their homes as a result. This is a woman from Georgia, for example. Watch. >> Hey you guys. My name's Ansley. I live in Coweta County, Georgia. I wanted to come out here and show you guys firsthand what is happening to our county. So, as you can see behind me, we have these power lines. Georgia Power is going to expand these lines to support power to the data center. What they're doing to homeowners is they're taking their homes. This is my childhood home behind me. It is being taken by force by Georgia Power. Homeowners in this county do not have a choice. It is called eminent domain, and they will take it. >> Well, this is one way to ensure that people own nothing as the WEF has long desired. It used to be uh climate change would bring about that result. Uh climate change, well, we don't need that anymore when you've got AI, and you've got data centers. Politicians can just take your home from you. That's exactly what's happening. It's not just one case in Georgia. More than a dozen farmers in Kentucky recently received threats that eminent domain will be used to seize their land for a data center, according to the Guardian. Meanwhile, as the ABC affiliate in Virginia reports, quote, "A Charlotte County farmer is frustrated after he said Dominion Energy is threatening to invoke eminent domain on his land." He said the company is pushing for him to accept an offer to make way for a transmission line. Uh Todd Lax has a farm in Randolph with over 200 acres of land. Lax said Dominion offered about $1,500 per acre and money to cover the cost of timber. Uh in his case, that adds up to about $13,000 total, but uh he would like $11,000 per acre. Lax said that uh his own legal counsel advised him not to take the lower offer. Generally speaking, they said eminent domain cases are settled three to five times the initial offer, but in this area because of the high solar stakes with data centers that could easily be 10 to 15 times what they offered. According to Lax. Now, what this farmer doesn't realize is he's actually pretty fortunate in this scenario. He knows the identity of the organization. In this case, an energy company that's trying to seize his property. That's a major advantage because very often large corporations will use shell companies in order to trick land owners into selling their property at bargain rates. Disney pioneered this tactic in the 1960s. They realized that, you know, they wanted a lot of land in Central Florida south of Orlando to create a new mini city which ultimately became Walt Disney World Resort. But if the land owners knew that Disney was the buyer, they'd immediately raise their prices. So, Disney established shell companies with names like MT Lot Real Estate Investments. Empty Lot. Get it? Uh they hired fake executives and lawyers and as a result they were able to get some of the land for as low as 100 bucks an acre. And by the time Disney was revealed as the buyer, the price went as high as 80,000 an acre, but it was too late at that point for most of the sellers. Now, today Big Tech is running a very similar strategy. This is from an investigative report that Business Insider recently posted. Watch. >> Giant warehouses are popping up across the US, more than two every week. They feed AI algorithms, store photos, and answer our questions. >> Hey Google. >> A data center campus like this can consume as much power and water as an entire city. >> [music] >> And many of the biggest server farms are emerging from the desert. But there's no official record of how many of these are being built, where they are, or even who owns them. >> To be honest, I've never really run into so much resistance for records than [music] this project. >> Big tech companies often go to great lengths to hide the details. >> So, you know, it's it's been really tricky to kind of get these records because the companies don't want to disclose all of that information. >> By tricky, we mean redacted records and requests denied on the grounds of trade secrets. It turns out there is one thing that most data [music] centers need, backup generators in case the grid fails. And anyone who wants to install a generator needs to apply for an air quality permit. >> So, what we set out to do was request all of the permits that are issued to data centers for those backup generators. >> That meant filing public record requests for air permits in every state. They list the capacity of the generator, so we can extrapolate the power needs of the data center. They also provide clues about who owns it. Take this hotspot rapidly expanding close to Columbus, Ohio. >> There are at least 164 emergency generators permitted here. This is a data center [music] where the air permit was applied for by an LLC called Magellan Enterprises LLC. Um but the company has applied for a trade secrets uh exemptions. So, they were actually able to redact pretty much all the information that we wanted. >> But all of the big tech giants must disclose any companies like LLCs that they own. And by digging into their official records, we managed to pull back the mask. And it turns out that the data center in Ohio >> it's not Magellan Enterprises LLC, that's actually owned by Google. >> Okay, so you've got uh these big creepy warehouses popping up like weeds all over the country two a week Um we're being told and they use up more power and water than a small city. Um but nobody knows who's building the warehouses or what they're really using them for. That's a great situation. Now there are several reasons why Google might want to hide the fact that they're building a data center near your house. It's bad PR for one thing. They also might want to hide their expansion from competitors. But on several occasions the motivation appears to be getting land for cheap. The Washington Post reports that Google set up shell companies for negotiations in at least five cities where they ultimately build data centers. In one case Google established a Delaware company called Jetstream LLC to quote negotiate the land purchase with a private owner. Uh no word on how that land purchase went exactly, but we can assume it was very favorable for Google. Now it's hard to know how many of these transactions occur. Shell companies by their nature are difficult to track, but it's a good bet that farmers in uh Louisiana can expect to hear from a few shell companies in the near future. That's because they're getting a massive new meta data center in the next couple of years. And already according to the local tax assessor, rents have increased from $650 a month to 2,000. And of course property values have gone up, meaning residents owe much more in property taxes. Watch. >> Billions of dollars are moving through a tiny town in Louisiana. Meta, the parent company of Facebook and Instagram, is building what some predict will be the biggest data center in the world. >> Han Trang traveled to Richland Parish where he found a community experiencing rapid growth and the pains that come with that. >> Many people born and raised in Richland Parish are used to a slower pace of life. >> I'm not for change. I don't change my furniture around or nothing. I stay just like it is. >> We're been a simple farming community. Great place to raise your kids. It's quiet. >> [snorts] >> You won't find much quiet in certain parts of the parish anymore. Entergy Louisiana is now speeding toward a deadline. >> The power plant will be online at the end of 2028. >> Troy Heitmanns is Entergy Louisiana's vice president of hyperscale execution. That title requires him to oversee massive jobs. Heitmann says this one dwarfs any he's ever seen. >> This is the biggest customer project that Entergy Louisiana has ever undertaken. Um the only thing that is a similar scale that we've done in the past is building brand new nuclear power plants. >> All of this is to support what's happening just down the road on Highway 183, where Meta, the parent company of Instagram and Facebook, says it's building a $27 billion data center to advance its ambitions in artificial intelligence. In a parish of about 20,000, Brown says there are now at least 4,000 extra people living and working here. That kind of growth can come with pains like rising rents. >> There's bumps and bruises. Uh and we're failing them. Um you know, a rental that might have been 6 700 a month is now 2,500 a month. So, it's not affordable for the people that were here, and I hate that. It hurts my heart. >> When Meta come in, they moved some of the folks out and put in the trailer park. Well, they had find place to go. And some of them couldn't afford that, so I don't know what happened to them. >> 81-year-old Joyce Piercy feels the changes are coming too fast. >> Now, normally I don't have any issue with tax credits that encourage massive new businesses to come into town. Taxes in general are bad. Uh the government takes your money and wastes it very often. Therefore, tax credits are good. Problem is that if you're going to offer tax credits to major corporations, the community needs community needs to benefit in some way. If you simply give the corporation a discount that it doesn't need, and in turn you disrupt the lives of innocent people without benefiting anybody in any way outside of that corporation, then the tax credit has backfired. Um It is not advancing what was Bill Gates's phrase, human welfare. And that appears to be what's happening with these data centers. Yes, they create construction jobs, but once those jobs are gone, which doesn't take long, you've mostly got an empty warehouse with a couple of security guards. The data center churns along without many employees. This is from the Wall Street Journal. Quote, "In Abilene, Texas, some 1,500 people are building the first data center for the Stargate artificial intelligence venture led by OpenAI. Once it's completed, a lot fewer people will work there. The facility will have about 100 full-time employees, according to the city's economic development agency. That total is a fraction of the number of people who might work on the same 1 million square feet if it were an office park or a factory or warehouse. A 286,500 square foot cheese packaging plant that broke ground in Abilene in 2021 was projected to employ 500 people. The reality is data centers can employ more than 1,000 people in the several months or years it takes to build them, but rarely need more than 1 or 200 once they open." And that's another thing with these tax credits and and tax breaks and things for corporations. Like generally, the idea is, "Well, it's good to have big corporations move into your town because they're going to bring jobs with them." That's the idea. The problem with the data centers, as we just went over, is they don't bring very many jobs once they're built. So, if the data centers aren't creating jobs, then how are the residents getting any benefit, exactly? And if the answer is that the town has a lot more tax revenue, well, then great. Pass it along to the people living there. Give those same massive tax credits to the people who actually need them. Send them a tax refund to cover their rent increase or the electricity bill, something. If the local government is swimming in cash from all the new tax revenue, then they should be able to afford that easily. But at the moment, none of that is happening. Instead, residents are being told to deal with all the downsides of these data centers without any upside whatsoever. And and as many residents are discovering, the downsides uh are are significant. >> again. >> Um and you know, even if you don't lose your home in the process of the of the thing moving into town, which you might, your quality of life will go down. The downside involve things like loud noises at strange hours. These next three clips are all from Virginia. The first one is at midnight. Listen. >> The proximity of the houses to this noise. And as of right now, I don't see the black smoke. But often, there are multiple black particles blowing in the air along with this sound. Why is this allowed? Right next to single family homes. Right next to other town homes. And other town homes here. >> Listen to this. The ambient sound of Dulles Town Center in northern Virginia recorded on a phone. Three Amazon data centers sit roughly 200 m away. I ran the audio through noise reduction software. Only then do you realize that hidden behind the drone of the data centers there is birdsong. >> Well, it's hard to imagine something more dystopian than that. You've got this big creepy empty warehouse box-like massive building towering over these single-family homes and this creepy buzz high like high-pitched buzz sound just emanating from it. It's like it's like something out of a dystopian fiction. But it's real. Here's another one. This is time for Minnesota. >> So this is comparable to the data center that is going to be built over um in in the Bertram chain of lakes. The guy from Skennel Properties told me to come and check out this data center. I'm hoping that my phone is capturing that noise. It is actually significantly loud. >> It's high-pitched. >> Now, in fairness, as we said, we're trying to analyze this issue uh objectively with no hysteria. Uh in some of these videos, they're recording the sound of the on-site generators, which as you might imagine are very loud. And these generators don't run all the time. But all the same they're obviously uh very uh annoying, to put it put it mildly for anybody who lives nearby. And that's not a small thing. You know, having a massive building that's by the way also just ugly to look ugly to look at, it makes an ugly sound, it actually reduces your quality of life in measurable and significant ways. It's not a small thing. And they also lower property values. More serious problems like the ones that woman mentioned in the city council meeting are generally related to the construction of the data centers. This is one of the prominent case one of the more prominent cases from Georgia. Watch. >> This is our cold water pressure in the kitchen. This is where I fill up water for storage. Those are the things we have to fill up to flush the toilets. >> So you can see the sediment from the data center. Wow, and that's just from the water coming out of your faucet. >> Yeah. And this is what's in all the pipes. >> Just the well itself is probably 20,000 and that's not counting any of the >> All the replacement of the fixtures and faucets and toilets and the lines that come underneath the house. It's overwhelming because you you really feel like you are up against this huge wall that you can't penetrate. There's nothing that >> [music] >> that you can do and they don't care. The light pollution is >> We don't have to have a nightlight in the house. You can walk around the house at night and see everything. >> [music] >> It's that bright. >> This is a video of the dust from Facebook where the construction was. >> What it looks like right now out my front door. The wind blowing in all of this stuff from across the construction across the road. >> This is all from that up >> Yeah, I was standing on my front porch. >> I think eventually that affected our well water. We're on a well here and we started having issues with our well in 2018. I have to replace the hot water heater. I've replaced two washing machines and [music] a dishwasher because of the sediment that's coming in. >> Now to be clear about this, these people were using a separate well and during construction they said that their well was affected. Meta claims they did a groundwater study and that's not true. Whatever the case, this is a this is not a situation where the data center itself um caused the problem. Building any large structure could have caused the same problem and this is not a case where the entire town lost water pressure or ran out of water or anything like that. Um it's obviously a sympathetic story, but it doesn't connect to a larger problem with AI data centers in particular necessarily. What is a sign of a larger problem potentially is how much water these data centers are consuming. Many of them use a technique called evaporative cooling where they pull in hot air. The air hits the wet cooling pads and then the heat dissipates. Uh these are often closed-loop systems, so the water isn't being wasted, but it's still putting a strain on many communities. This is in the New York Times reporting out of Georgia, quote, uh Newton County is on track to be in a water deficit by 2030. If the local water authority cannot upgrade its facilities, residents could be forced to ration water. Meta's data center uses about 10% of the county's total water used daily, said Mike Hopkins, the executive director of the Newton County Water and Sewer Authority, which is the county's water authority. In recent months, Mr. Hopkins said that nine companies had applied to build data centers in Newton County, some asking for as much as 6 million gallons of water a day, more than the county's entire daily use. Some applicants are tech companies as large as Amazon, according to the water permits, while other companies used aliases to hide their identities. Now, if you zoom out, the water consumption for these data centers uh isn't crisis level on a national level. All the water withdrawals made by these data centers combined account for about 5% of the water usage of golf courses. But, at the local level, if politicians aren't careful with the permits they're using, then they could indeed run out of water and power. But, here's the point. If you're spending all your time worrying about whether a local county will issue an ill-advised permit that leads to water rationing in 3 years, then although that is a concern, you're missing the the the greater threat that's posed by these data centers. They're a direct threat not only to your job, but also to your and to your home, also to your personal privacy. Now, this is an argument that very few people uh are making aside from Mike Cernovich on X is making this point, and a few others. A well-trained AI is designed to draw accurate inferences about human behavior based on a near infinite data set. If you use the internet, then it's all but guaranteed that Google and Meta have an enormous amount of data about your political opinions, your hobbies, your location even when you're not at home. And if they wanted to, these companies could tell the authorities precisely what you're doing, who you're with at any given second. They could provide a complete breakdown of your health issues, your mood, your goals in life, your fears and anxieties. And they could predict with a high degree of certainty what you're going to do next. How much are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness worth to you? This is the question America's founders had to answer more than 150 years uh for more than 150 years. America's 13 colonies governed themselves until Britain declared that they had no right to self-rule. So, ordinary people had to make extraordinary choices and risk their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor to fight for independence, and against all odds, they won. And in victory, they built one of the most stable and lasting republics in history. Now, experience the American Revolution like never before, thanks to our friends at Hillsdale College. Revolutionary America, a new documentary from Hillsdale Studios, narrated by Tom Selleck, brings the founding of our nation to life through the voices of those who lived it alongside insights from leading scholars and commentators. At a time when history is often distorted, this is your chance to see the story as it truly happened, and ask yourself what you would risk for free- freedom. Uh face the decisions that our founders grappled with in Revolutionary America, as Hillsdale Studios film, only in theaters May 31st through June 2nd. Get your tickets now by going to hillsdale.edu/revolution. You don't want to miss the opportunity to see this on the big screen. Go to hillsdale.edu/revolution to locate a theater near you and buy tickets now for Revolutionary America. One more time, it's hillsdale.edu/revolution. Most people don't spend a lot of time thinking about their liver. It's one of those things you assume is fine until you're told otherwise, but more Americans are starting to realize it's not something you take for granted. If you're hesitant to jump straight into traditional options for cholesterol support, and are looking for alt- alternatives that feel simpler and more familiar, let me introduce you to our sponsor, Dose for Cholesterol. Dose for Cholesterol is a clinically backed cholesterol support supplement with ingredients like turmeric, ginger, and pomegranate. So, you're dealing with uh plant and mineral-based ingredients, not a bunch of nonsense. People on our team have been using this, and have been encouraged by what they've seen in their blood work. It's very simple to work. Uh deal Dose Daily into your routine. It's just a daily 2-oz shot. That's it. Cholesterol, uh the one that with cholesterol tastes like mango, and the liver one tastes like uh orange juice. No capsules, no powders. Delivered right to your door, making it easy to stay consistent. New customers can save 35% on your first month of subscription by going to dosedaily.co/walls, or out that's d o s e d a i l y c o walls for 35% off your first month subscription. Now right now according to the latest polling, the Democrats leading candidate for president in 2 years is not Gavin Newsom, it's AOC, the socialist from New York. You think she'd hesitate even for a second to use this data to harass and imprison her political enemies? You think for a second that Big Tech would hesitate to share all this information with her administration? That's not fear mongering. Democrats have already done this without the benefit of AI. They already rounded up conservatives and thrown them in jail. They did it to the president of the United States. The last thing we need to hand these people is a powerful AI to do that for them. Now does that mean that we should never build any data centers? Does it mean that we should abandon AI entirely? That AI has no useful applications at all? Of course it doesn't mean that, but we should also be very careful to avoid racing forward with AI with no guard rails, no caution whatsoever, all based on some vague notion that we need to get there first and beat China. Get where exactly? If we impoverish millions of people and power bureaucrats and Big Tech oligarchs with surveillance tools beyond their wildest imagination, then what good is it to win the race? What's the reward for winning? I mean if we're actually concerned about human welfare, and we should be, then how is human welfare secured or advanced by creating a society where we are tracked and surveilled every hour of the day? And at the same time millions of jobs become obsolete all at once. AI is already in the process of taking away not just individual jobs, but entire categories of jobs, entire industries. How does that advance human welfare? I can see how it advances the welfare of Big Tech executives who are all about to become trillionaires or already are trillionaires. But if you lose your job to AI and then your house to an AI data center, I'm not sure you'll have as many reasons to celebrate. It's to me the most terrifying thing about the current moment is is that we are not It's not that we're simply moving forward with a revolutionary new technology. We are sprinting with it. It is a mad dash into the unknown. There has not been any real discussion about the downsides. Nobody has really explained how our society is going to absorb the inevitable job losses or what those people are supposed to do. We don't know how many of these data centers will be needed. Or how many people will be displaced. Nobody's told us what the limiting principles are. I mean, we don't even know who's who what How many of these things are they going to put up? And who's We don't even know who's putting them up in the first place. There have been no national referendums or votes on any of this. And those of us who try to simply have this conversation are shouted down as being anti-progress or somehow being tools for the Chinese. This seems to be the answer from those leading the charge. They Their answer is that um they have no answer. And we must simply accept that. And we must simply accept that, you know, Big Tech companies are going to do whatever they want with AI because uh China. Which is to say that all the questions remain. The corporations that are using shell companies to buy farmland in Iowa aren't going to answer the questions. Neither will hysterical women screaming uh you know, and and and about entire counties being wiped off the face of the earth. Uh but before we proceed any further with this expansion, hundreds of data centers are under construction as we speak. Someone in a position of power needs to do so. We need some actual answers. The AI data centers themselves are a very legitimate concern, yet still far less of a threat than the AI itself. And anyone who says otherwise, whether they realize it or not, is guaranteeing that Big Tech will get exactly what they want. That'll do it for the show today and this week. Talk to you on Monday. Have a great weekend. Godspeed. >> [music] >> Martin Luther King Jr. is an American icon, widely considered one of the greatest Americans who ever lived. A man who had a vision for a colorblind society, a post-racial America. He had a dream. It's just not the dream you thought it was. Were his true aims a colorblind society or something far more radical? Who bankrolled him? What unfolded behind the scenes in Birmingham, Alabama in 1963? Was civil disobedience actually peaceful? We wanted to show you a clip of the I Have a Dream speech, but according to our lawyers, we can't. In fact, King's family has made a lot of money suing media outlets. [music] They want to silence critics like us. What they're doing makes it very difficult to judge Martin Luther King Jr. not by the color of his skin, but by the content of his character. Is America today stronger, more unified, and racially equal than before King's rise? [music] These questions demand answers, and as Americans, we are entitled to a full accounting of the civil rights movement and [music] its consequences. King's movement fundamentally transformed our country and our system of government. >> I speak as a citizen of the world. Each day the war goes on, the hatred increases. Though the cause of evil prosper. >> First part of our two-part special on the Civil Rights Movement, A New Constitution, available now on Daily Wire Plus.